it got scary we had to move into a
higher security building and I didn't
know what to do that's when it got dark
Casey niist The Godfather of YouTube the
king of vlogging one of the most
prolific creators in
history throughout your story there's
this objectively delusional persistence
towards a goal the word I've been using
is patience because patience is so
unattractive and I think you need to
remove this idea of success being this
romantic beautiful thing it's not when I
started my Vlog making a video a day 800
days in a row it took 8 years to go from
zero to a couple hundred thousand
subscribers failing year in in year out
of
$200,000 in debt it's awful you're a
loser but patience will smash into
opportunity and then it went to 10
million subscribers in like 18 months so
in life you can get whatever you want
but are you willing to do that for 20
years if you're not don't bother man
you've sold the company you've built the
channels you've made a huge name for
your s at that point that's when it got
hard because the only goal that anyone
should have in life is one of happiness
and fulfillment and like this idea that
you have to win to be happy could not be
further from the truth I had by every
definition achieved success but I wasn't
running the marathon because I wanted to
get across the Finish Line I was running
it because I love the running and the
fame was insane like we had to move to
LA and I didn't know what to do until
now is this a new Casey what can we
expect
Casey is a legend he's a legend to so
many people he's one of The Originals as
it relates to creativity content video
and YouTube and although most of us know
Casey what most of us don't know is the
Underdog Story the true deep uncovered
motivations that drove him to become
arguably one of the world's most famous
most acclaimed most celebrated online
creators ever and it's a story that
you'll relate
to it's a story of a completely normal
dude that was down and out that had a
very big indistinguishable passion and
the more interesting maybe for me as
someone that's watched Casey's Journey
for a far is what he's doing
now for the first time ever he talks
about what his life is right now now
that he's not uploading videos every day
now that he's a little bit further out
of the spot light and Casey gives us
this blueprint for how we can take that
thing that we enjoy doing that thing we
consider a passion or a hobby and drag
it up the mountain and make it an
incredibly lucrative job how do we turn
our passion into a career and how do we
become number one at the thing we do
when everything everything seems to be
against us that is the story of Casey
neistat and that's the story you're
going to enjoy today before this episode
episode starts the one favor I'll ask if
you enjoy what we do here and you enjoy
the guests that we bring please join the
Diary of Co journey by hitting the
Subscribe button and if you do I'll make
you a deal I'll do everything in my
power to make this show bigger and
better for you do we have a deal enjoy
this
[Music]
episode Casey what do I need to know
about your earliest years to understand
the man that sits before me today I I
almost think of people's lives like a
set of dominoes that have fallen what
are those first dominoes that fell to
create the man that sits here today oh
man how much time you
got plenty so my whole childhood was
just completely
unsupervised like there was no did you
do your homework tonight there was no
like dinner at 6 it was like be home
before dark or you're going to be in
trouble trouble never being defined and
like dark never being defined and it was
just kind of like a very loose kind of
[__] up wandering childhood of
exploration you know like I was telling
this story recently but we there were
railroad tracks behind our house and one
of the things we used to do for fun we
were little kids is we collect pennies
and change and we'd lay them on the
railroad tracks and the train would go
over them and flatten them very cool but
the train would vibrate the tracks as it
approached and the coins would fall off
of it so what the only way to to address
that is you'd put the coins on the train
tracks when the train was really
close so I you know I don't know I was
in grammar school which is sixth grade
like how old are you then I was like 10
years old it's a little kid and like you
know train track huge freight train
coming and me putting nickels on the
train tracks to try to get a flattened
coin that's kind of what my childhood
was
like as you look back what is the power
and the the gift that that UNS
supervision gives you because I resonate
with that so much I think the reason I
became an entrepreneur was because I
I've always said this when I was 10
years old my parents weren't there when
I went to bed and they weren't there
when I woke up and being the youngest of
four it was like they had assumed I'd
also been parented already so they just
they like gave up or something they just
got busy so in that void of Independence
I conducted a lot of experiments and I
almost hear that in what you're saying
as well that unsupervised allowed for
exploration that allowed for something
yeah I think it's um or like necessity
is the mother of invention and I think
you know if you're 10 and your parents
all of a sudden are absent you're just
forced to figure [__] out it's funny
because like all I want to do as a
parent now is protect my children from
the hardships I had when I was little
but it is those hardships I had that
made me who I am and it is like this
impossible dichotomy to address it's
impossible as a parent like I constantly
think I'm [__] up my kids like we
send them to a private school because we
can like if you can afford it which we
can we're fortunate like why would I not
send my kids to the best school but in
the back of my brain I think what's best
for them is to be in some New York City
public school figuring it out like I
think that's what's but I don't do that
um because I had a terrible time at
public school I hated it so I want to
protect them from that so I send them to
a really fancy school that's lovely and
warm and cozy and like am I helping them
I don't know but no I think that exactly
what you were saying like I had no
choice but to f figured out when I was
little like I worked from like when I
was super young I figured out how to
make a dollar like I was a paper boy
when I was really really young
delivering newspapers and I'd make like
30 bucks a week and then you know when I
got to um 8th grade and I started
smoking pot and I realized like the math
behind weed sales I was like okay
there's like a there's a 400% a 4X
return if you buy quarter ounces and you
break them down and you sell them as
dime bags but if you buy a quarter pound
and you sell them as eigh you're looking
at a 1, 1600% return I was like okay so
how do I come up with 250 bucks to buy
the to buy the QP and then let me break
that down and then like I haven't hit
puberty yet I'm a little kid like these
guys are going to beat the [__] out of
me if I mess with the wrong people so I
need to befriend the guys that can
protect me and like figure out that
business um all of that was because I
had like I didn't have a choice why were
you unsupervised where were your parents
um and this what I mean by when I say my
parents were accidentally um great and I
do think they tried their best you know
like my dad worked a zillion hours a
week he had no choice um I think we
lived like a very middle
class livelihood you know like my
parents had like nice cars they had
Volvos but they always bought like
5-year-old Volvos never new cars and
like we lived in a house that was like
comfortable but like you know there's
never any food in our house it was like
it was fine we always made it by we'd go
on vacation but it was always like in
the back of the station wagon and we go
to like Town two hours away and stay in
a shitty motel for two or three nights
but my dad worked all the time and I
only understood later that it was very
like hand to mouth you know he's
paycheck to paycheck kind of guy and my
mother you know I don't I I still don't
understand my mom I think she she was
one of eight kids my mother is the tail
end of an aristocracy so it's like I
always describe her side of the family
as like all the privilege and
entitlement of an aristocrat with none
of the money so I you know I don't my
mother was just always kind of an enigma
and always kind of absent um and I think
that they were just they tried the best
they could and we were just kind of left
wandering as kids they divorced at some
point yeah that's when things got really
hard in what way I think that childhood
always felt like he were sort of Hanging
On by a thread
I was like one of four my older brother
van was the first born and he's such a
van is such an incredible guy and he's
so magnetic and then there's my sister
who's the only girl and then there's my
little baby brother Dean who was the
baby and then I was just kind of this
like accident that happened 13 months
after my sister and two years before my
brother like it was this so it it's like
I I was always the loudest and the
squeakiest to get the most
attention and uh you know
was I kind of think that like
characterized what my the challenges was
were for me as a kid growing up and then
it just got you know the the
the the tumult of living in that house
just kind of precipitated until my
parents split up which happened under
very like auspicious shitty [__] up
circumstances and kids being blamed when
the kids shouldn't have been blamed and
um I say all that without faulting my
parents again I think they were trying
their best but looking back at it it's
like what the [__] guys I I heard you
say previously that you you had to tell
your father that your mother had been
had cheated on him yeah I remember that
vividly like I can picture the table we
were sitting at I can remember his
posture I can remember his response to
it but yeah you know my my mother you
know she's a she's a you know she's a
good woman she has faults like all of us
humans have faults but I think she let
those manifest in a way that were really
dark at that time in her life and it was
apparent to me as a 14-year-old exactly
what was going on exactly what was going
it was so [__] crystal clear as a
14-year-old yeah like abundantly clear
and I never really understood my own
father's perspective on that but I
understand that his perspective now it's
like you know he's working a million
hours a week to keep his head above
water and also like you don't want to
see that you don't like the truth sucks
so just like put your head in the sand
and ignore it is a very natural response
to it but I was like fighting with my
mother at the time about you know all
kinds of the [__] that a teenager fights
with their parents about getting in
trouble at school and all of that so I I
was mad at her and I think I you know
part of part of me addressing that was
just sort of confronting my dad what are
you gonna do about this woman at 14
years old you knew your mother was
cheating on your father and you told him
yeah how does one know
that I mean it's it it was it was super
apparent I mean there very there's a
handful of very
specific situations that just made it
abundantly clear um and you know I think
that's why like you know at the time
obviously fought my mom through and
through but looking back at it it was
you know was probably something closer
to like a cry for help or a cry for
attention or just a way of
her you know her letting the struggle
she was facing in the totality of her
life manifest like this is the only way
can express it is by doing this kind of
[__] up awful thing as you step out of
that chapter of your your childhood what
are the fingerprints the character
fingerprints that are left on you that
still are with you today what did that
chapter of your life those first s of 15
years oh I don't think anything has
changed like I don't think it's even
fingerprints it was so like acute the
way that I had that I saw my future when
I was that young like I knew exactly my
plan really and exactly my plan and then
look the specifics of how that plan was
going to come together were ambiguous at
Best But like I had I knew exactly my
plan like New York City was always the
plan I remember was like page 41 in my
social studies book was a two-page
spread of the New York City skyline and
I wouldn't let myself look at that page
because it would I would have such an
emotional response to it like Tom Hanks
in the movie Big I would play that movie
on repeat because I was like that's me
like that's me I'm going to move to New
York City and get to be the kid that I
wish I could be like that's me to this
day like I know every word of that movie
that movie is like a Bible for me it is
a road map for me but you know like i'
I've made 500 YouTube videos about this
single idea but like the mission of my
life and this was defined then when I
was a little kid the sole mission of my
life is to realize all the promises I
made to myself as a kid you like when
you're a little kid and you're like
someday I'm going to be an astronaut
like your mom yells at you and it's like
well someday I'm going to have kids and
I'm not going to yell at them or like
you're [__] hungry and you're all out
of mac and cheese and you're like some
I'm going to have a refrigerator that's
always filled up with food like whatever
it is you know you have a boss that's an
[__] and it's like Someday I'm not
going to have any boss and like all of
those promises like my promises could
you know they could fill up a phone book
and my soulle mission was always like no
I have to check every single one of
these off um the how was always gray but
the the the to do it was always Vivid
and there was never even a doubt that it
was going to happen like there was never
an if ever there's nothing even close to
that but life throws at you at that age
things that you could never have
predicted and those things don't seem to
have deterred your pursuit of that
mission you have a child that's what 16
17 years old yeah that was diff yeah so
I moved out moved out is such a funny
way of characterizing I say moved out
and I picture like a moving truck pullup
I got in a fight with my mom at age 15
on a Monday night um school night and
she gave me this ultimatum this is when
she and my father were like you really
like they were splitting up and getting
back together it was like a really
gnarly time in the family but we got
into this fight and I just remember
thinking like I was so mad at her at the
time I was like you can't tell me what
to do and she was like you need to do
this this and this or get out of this
house and I was like all right I'm gonna
go and I just like left why why did you
go like that night I stayed at a
friend's house down the street because
his parents were like weirdly religious
but also kind of absent they were always
like very warm to me so I was like hey
can I sleep here and he's like yeah sure
then I slept in another other friend's
house and then so you ran away from him
yeah so I they moved out it wasn't like
you know put the couch over there it was
like I just took a backpack and it was
just close to like a stick with a red
handkerchief on the back um but I
eventually moved in with these two girls
that were great they were super fun um
and you know they were like I'd say I
was 15 I think they were 17 or 18 and
then yeah I started you know one of them
she and I kind of got close and then
like immediately she was pregnant and a
year later we had yeah we had a kid and
that was challenging but even so like I
never I remember one moment where like
she started freaking out in the car cuz
she was like you know eight months
pregnant and she's like crying and just
like you know dealing with it and I
pulled over and I was like what are you
upset about and she was like what are we
going to do we don't have any money like
you don't even have a job like what are
we going to do and I was like it's going
to be what do you mean what are we going
to do it's going to be fine we're going
to have a kid it's going to be be great
it's gonna be
fine were you not scared then no it just
everything made sense I was like oh this
is
great there's a naivity to it's
beautiful now I'm scared I always say
that like I had nothing to lose then
like I had nothing and no nothing like I
had no reputation you know like my
friend's parents all thought I was a
[__] degenerate they wouldn't let me
hang around with my friends because I
was such a bad influence so it wasn't
like I had like a reputation nobody knew
me I had nothing I had no money I had no
resources I knew no one and when you
have nothing to lose you're just like a
like a rat that's cornered and it was
like I'm going to chew my way out of
this one um and now I'm like I'm so
scared and everything I do in life
because I'm like it's so good right now
I don't want to [__] anything up take it
really easy like I'm really happy right
now like this is I want to protect what
I've got but no there was a navity then
that was just uh
that was it's hard for me to empathize
with how like bright-eyed bushy tail
naive I was I remember when like my son
Owen when his mother when she and I
split up um you know she dumped me
because I was just such a pain in the
ass and God bless her for doing so but I
remember I was like then I was like okay
I've got a plan in five years I'm G to
move to New York City and I'm gonna
figure this out and I'm gonna do this
and I'm gonna do that what were you
gonna do in New York I don't know had
some cocka made me plan there's always a
plan um I don't know what the specific I
knew that like up until that point in my
life I'd only ever worked in the back of
restaurants washing dishes or like being
like a prep cook or just being like the
low man in the totem pole takes out the
trash and scrubs out the garbage cans
like does all the [__] work mop um this
the only job I'd ever done my my father
sold used restaurant supplies like if
you need a new oven or walk in fridge so
he could always get me jobs in
restaurants and I remember like moving
to New New York City my only plan was
like I'm just not going to work in a
restaurant that's my plan I'm going to
do anything that's not working but I had
this 5-year plan to move to New York
City and like six months later I quit my
job and moved to New York when you look
back at that sort of like 19-year-old
kid that quits his job and moves to New
York so up until that point what do you
now know as a guy that's in their 40s
about the brilliant accidental decisions
you were making at the time like what
are the bril you know like The
Accidental Brilliance that is probably
objectively stupidity like that's a
stupid decision but in hindsight you go
I was a genius you know it's I never
would say in hindsight I was a genius
it's just be it was raw stupidity and
fearlessness but it's like all those
stupid [__] quotes that everybody
posts on Instagram that like I hate
about like you know you only live once
follow your dreams pursue this like [__]
you [__] every one of you um I hate that
[__] I hate inspo porn even though I'm
very guilty of Fanning the Flames of
inspo porn but like there's so much
truth to all of that and the reason why
I hate that [__] is like if you have to
be told that it's too late if you're
going to learn that from Instagram post
it means nothing nothing to you it's
just masturbation like it's it's doing
nothing for anyone people just put it up
there to feel good about themselves but
all of it is true and what I mean by
that is like I could never do at age 42
do what I could do at age 19 which is
just say [__] it I've got a 10th grade
education no high school diploma no work
experience no life experience and a
two-year-old what's the best thing I can
do right now I know let me move to the
most expensive challenging city in the
world with no plan if I hadn't done it
then I I don't know you could ever do
that and I think that like when I say
those cheesy quotes are true it's like
you kind of have an obligation in in
life that if you feel something that is
so powerful to you like follow through
with that and I'm not naive to that now
I wasn't naive to it then but I think
now I can articulate it which is like
this idea of
privilege if you're like born in the
United States of America if you like get
to sit at a table and do this like no I
wasn't a rich kid and like yeah I was
like on welfare and got free diapers and
milk from the state otherwise I wouldn't
been able to feed my child and like I
work 60 hours a week in a kitchen making
eight bucks an hour I think I got 725 an
hour was my starting
um salary and like I that was like I'm
like the luckiest person in the world to
get to do that are you crazy like do you
know what some kid in South Sudan would
do for that opportunity and I just
walked into it I'm like a healthy guy
I've got two legs that work and like
like I have a brain like I'm the lucky I
won the lotto on life so like if you
start life with this winning lotto
ticket and it's like oh little hiccup
accidentally had a baby when I was
[__] teenager it's like no big deal
like they'll just push through this this
is going to be great and it's like I
want to live in New York City it's like
let's go for it let's do it the
privilege there sounds like a privilege
of
mindset this objective privilege I guess
from being yeah like I push back when
people say that my response is like [__]
you privilege of mind no that's an
objective privilege name one time in the
history of humanity like what the
Sumerians invented the written word
5,000 years ago name one time when
people had the kind of opportunity that
like people like us born in the west
have like there never existed before
never ever maybe it was a little bit
easier for our
parents you know what I mean like maybe
like postwar USA was like a little bit
easier than it is now maybe now is a
little bit harder than it was for me 20
years ago but like still give me a
[__] break like this life is like
it's it's the hardships we face now are
so meal compared to what they were 100
years ago objectively 200 years ago you
say that thing that went viral and it
was like the reasons why people died in
London in the year 1892 and like the
fourth most popular cause of death was
teeth like like 60% of the population
are dying because their teeth are [__]
up like we have it pretty easy what why
don't people so there's going to be
another guy right now that's like
washing pots in the back room at the
seafood restaurant on the $7 an hour and
he might be listening to this right now
and he hears you say that but why why
don't people take action beyond that
point and take the big bet when they
have objectively potentially nothing to
lose oh what's that line from is it
catty Shack or Fletch when he's like the
world needs ditch diggers too that's a
very cynical take on it but I think a
very practical take is like not
everybody wants it and I think that's
okay I think that's a wonderful thing I
never understood that I think like in
life you can get whatever you want but
you can't want whatever you want if you
don't want it there's no creating that
but do you think sometimes people want
to want want it but they don't really
want yeah of course of course and I
think that's okay if you really [__]
wanted it you would need this like
inspirational podcast that make you make
that decision you'd already be [__]
doing it um that's not it to be defeis
it just means that like the only goal
that anyone should have in life is one
of happiness and fulfillment and like
this idea that you have to win to be
happy could not be further from the
truth like why do we hear about rock
stars and famous actors and these people
that we see as sort of like the the
absolute Apex of success in Industry
where are they all [__] killing
themselves and dying of alcoholism and
like all that Darkness happening at the
highest level It's like because that
doesn't equal happiness like what is
happiness for you and an example I like
to point to is like my best friend in
the whole world we grew up together like
um I ran away from home I stayed with
him for a little while like we've been
together since we were kids you know
like when I moved to New York he stayed
in the hometown and like when I quit my
job washing dishes I gave him that job
he literally took over that job and now
you know here we are 25 years later he
still lives in that town um you know he
still has a job very similar to what he
had 25 years ago he's got three amazing
kids he lives like a very what I would
say is like very classic archetypal
middle class American life and like I
look at him and I'm like that is the
embodiment of like happiness and
fulfillment he has this amazing
relationship with his amazing wife he
has these three brilliant little kids
that he gets to you know make sure he
get they get to school every single day
he's got like a cute dog that he goes on
runs with he has this amazing life and
no part of that life was being like [__]
this I want to like live on the moon
someday I need to run away from all this
like his his focus in life was something
completely different and I think that I
didn't I I struggled to appreciate that
when I was younger but now I see like so
much to that and that's why I think like
adjusting the pie in the sky is just
just one of happiness and fulfillment
and defining those it is up to you Brony
W me was talking about her the other day
um she's that I think it's called
paliative care nurse in Australia who
interviewed people with one day left to
live and she asked them what their
biggest regret in their life was and the
number one regret of the dying was not
living a life True to Myself And for
those people those that do have this
aspiration to start that business or I
don't know become a ballet dancer in
Europe or whatever that are held back by
potentially some form of
fear you know is there is there anything
that one can offer them to get them just
to take that that first initial step
which seems to be the hardest like
getting off the couch or getting out of
quitting the job that you you you might
offer to your children if they came to
you yeah me I just think that failure is
um I think failure is like the greatest
gift I think failure is like it hurts so
bad but failure is like is a part of
life and if you're not willing to accept
that like failure is part of it you've
got to keep failing um Anvil the story
of anvil you know this I made a whole
video about this so I made a YouTube
video about this um and then the leads
there's a movie called Anvil I think
it's called the story of anvil or
something like that Anvil was this like
big hair rock band in the 80s and they
opened for like deaf leopard you know
like 50,000 people kind of thing but
they never headlined they never broke
through they were the always the opening
act they were always like the bridesmaid
never the bride and the movie opens
showing these huge concerts in the 80s
and Anvil just rocking out and then it
cuts and it shows the lead singer and he
lives in Canada and he drives a little
van he delivers food to old people
making minimum wage like barely able to
keep his head above water and he
performs still in his leather outfits is
like this middle-aged 50-year-old guy to
like six people and they'll be just
drinking beer and he's there giving it
his all and the movie is about how
Relentless this guy like he's just not
well he borrows money from his sister to
record an album nobody buys it can't pay
her back she got kids and [__] like it
is the most devastating story you've
ever seen because he's unwilling to give
up that dream like he just wouldn't let
it go this his whole life and then this
documentary comes out and it's [__]
fantastic and because of the documentary
Anvil blows up and all of a sudden he is
that Superstar like on tour selling out
Arenas in Japan and [__] like he did it
had he given up at any point in
time the the documentary wouldn't have
been interesting it would just been
another person who threw in the towel
but they made this like a filmmaker saw
this story it's like that's crazy I need
to tell that story and it yielded that
success had he not been willing to take
on 40 Years of failure 30 years of
failure um he would have never found
success and I think that's the most
extreme version of that the reason why I
was interrupting myself is because I
made that YouTube video about
that's basically the story I just told
you and like the director reached out
and was like whatever the guy's name the
lead singer vanville he's like dude he
loved your YouTube video and I was like
yes I was like Star Struck you know what
I mean yeah yeah um but I think failure
is overrated I think failure people are
so scared of failure and I think the
fear of failure is that it's a fear of
what other people are going to think
about you persistence that's what I
heard through that story as well just
this
almost objectively delusional
persistence towards a goal and I don't
know if those words are correct because
in that situation I I question whether
Anvil's success was ever really making
it or the journey itself was the success
but in your story I see the same level
of like persistence that a bystander
would go that guy's crazy because there
was various stats I saw about how long
it took you to get to various success
Milestones even when you started daily
vloging I think it took you five years
to get to like 400,000 subscribers yeah
throughout your story there this there's
this persistence where I go this guy
would have carried on doing this because
he wasn't doing this for any particular
Milestone what role does persistence
Play It's funny because persistence is
such a it's a more accurate word but the
word I've been using lately is patience
because I think it's so much less sexy I
think persistence is like like under the
picture of like little kitten hanging
off the branch it's like persistence you
know what I mean it'll never say
patience patience is so unattractive
active and when people say to me like
what's the one piece of advice you give
to an aspiring Creator and you know
patience like patience above every
because like if you're not willing to
give up if you're willing to stick with
it for you will find success or you'll
die trying which case [__] it like
whatever you know you're not going to be
that person in the palet of care saying
I wish I had hadn't given up because you
didn't give up you just kept going
you're gonna be that person who's like
I've got one day left I can still pull
this [__] off but patience is a really
unsexy way of saying it I think you need
to remove the sexiness you need to
remove the sensationalism that has that
that uh inspiration
has been perverted with is this idea of
like it's this romantic beautiful thing
it's not it's [__] awful like failing
year in and year out and having
everybody roll their eyes at you and
like you know whether you're a musician
who's performing at the mall and no
one's paying attention to or you're that
YouTuber uploads and you get zero views
like it's [__] awful it's
embarrassing you're a loser like it talk
to to Mr Beast Jimmy and it's like his
War Stories from when he started YouTube
and he was using his like Mom's busted
compact computer with a built-in webcam
making these videos that no one watched
they're all deleted scrubed from the
internet now they're terrible and just
like him going to school the next day
and it's like two of his friends from
school saw him and both acknowledge how
Terri they were like that kind of
like being told you're that that's
failure being told you suck over and
over and over and over and then seeing
how much you suck be
Quantified by a lack of views or no one
showing up to your concert or no one
laughing at your jokes because you're a
stand-up comedian or no one showing up
your restaurant because you're a chef
like that sucks starting an online store
no one buys your [__] t-shirts that
sucks failure
sucks so like combine that with patience
like that suck are you willing to do
that for 20 years if you're not don't
[__] bother man don't bother and
that's why I like the the plainness of
the word patience is because it's it
that is what it is there's nothing
persistence persistence is like oh
you're at Mile 22 persist man you'll get
across the Finish Line in four short
miles that's beautiful and fun and
hardcore that patience that you and Mr
Beast have both shown and many others
where does it come from because
objectively any any sane person if
everyone's telling them they're a loser
and they suck and their parents are
saying you better go get a real job
anyone Who's acting in line with their
in their apparent incentives in that
moment would quit I I think very simply
it comes for for me and I think probably
for Jimmy too we've talked about it he
and I have talked about it but there was
no plan B there was no other option you
know like I I had no backup plan there
was nothing else I could do it wasn't
like I had a college education and there
was like a job in an ad agency waiting
for me where I could just say [__] it
and go make 80k a year and get a nicer
apartment and relax and have a nice go
of it it was like if this doesn't work
I'm back in the kitchen making 725 in an
hour like you know getting money from
the state so I can pay for like
Groceries on a [__] Wick I was on
Wick women infants and children it was a
card you'd swipe it and you would pay
for your diapers and milk and that's it
if you tried to buy buy like a Nintendo
with it it wouldn't work like that I
remember that that's was the fallback
that was the
alternative um every single turn that
was the alternative like I moved to New
York City and I was here for three
months I had a three-month sublet that
my brother's ex-girlfriend paid for she
was like I'll loan you the money and I
was like cool it was her parents credit
card that paid for it and it was like
1,800 bucks 600 bucks a month 400 bucks
a month for three months I shared it in
any event that lease was up I had where
to live in New York and I was like [__]
what do I do now and I moved in with
some this this guy was like hey man I
need extra money if you want to sleep on
my couch my dad pays my rent so you
could sleep on my couch and just give me
like 300 bucks a month and that way the
money goes to me and I was like deal and
I slept on his couch for exactly 11
Nights from September 1st to September
11th 2001 and then the morning of
September 11th the entire apartment blew
up with me in it and him in it and I
remember like later that day like
getting on the phone with my dad and
like the towers are still on fire and my
dad being like I think it's time for you
to come come home now come back and I
was like what are you talking about like
what what are you talking what do you
mean why would I come back and he was
like terrorist blew up your apartment
you have no job you have no prospects
you have no money and now you have
nowhere to sleep I'm like I I'll figure
that out I'll be fine later
dad um like that's that that's patience
that's delusional patience but you ask
why like what fuels that Pat the plan B
was literally moving back to
Southeastern Connecticut and getting a
job in a restaurant I read a study once
about this whole idea of plan a thinking
and they take a group of people and they
tell them to do a puzzle and and in
exchange for doing the puzzle um
correctly they'll get a snack so they
take two groups and they say okay do
this puzzle if you do it correctly
you'll get a snack then they take
another group and they say do the same
puzzle if you do correctly you'll get a
snack but then they say to the group you
can also get the same snack just down
the hall in the vending machine and in
the second group where they're given a
plan B to get the snack motivation level
levels drop they spend less time trying
to do the puzzle um and their
performance towards doing the puzzle
plummets as well just by being aware
that they can get the same reward down
this down the hall performance drops and
if there was ever a case for this
psychology and they've done this
multiple times in multiple studies but
it is pretty solid evidence that even
the presence of a plan B can reduce
motivation towards your plan a
completely completely I mean like I wish
I knew that study because that's such a
beautiful beautiful illustration of what
it is and also what it means to have a a
knife at your back think I remember the
thing I used to say back then when I
first started to find success and I
would always be like my life is like I'm
running from a pack of starving woles if
if I slow down at all I will be eaten
alive like I have one choice and it's to
keep going as fast as I can or I'll be
torn to pieces and that's what it felt
like and I love that like that sounds so
like negative and dark but like I love
that it was such like a motivation and I
pied the friends like I remember I first
moved to New York City my first summer
here I don't know how but I like fell in
with this like click of because I
thought the girls were pretty but like
these rich kids and I would go out with
them and I just remember like the way
they would pick up the tab and they're
my age we like 19 20 years old and
they're picking up like you know
hundreds of dollar bar tabs and like
always had taxis and like a taxi to me
was like you know it's like a private
jet like they were like had all this
money and I would always kind of look at
them with this kind of like jealousy and
like it was less of a jealousy more just
fantasized like imagine if I was the
same age I am now but I had a credit
card with an unlimited amount of money
like I went to her apartment she lives
in like the 26th floor she has a
two-bedroom apartment and she lives
alone I'm sharing a 200t studio with
strangers I met on Craigslist we have to
wait in line to use the bathroom in the
morning and I fantasized about what that
would be like and then seeing as they
got older and as I got older them sort
of the sort of wandering and not sure
where they want to go in life and all of
that where for me it was such a you know
there was such a defined path cuz I
didn't have any of those luxuries or any
of those benefits that I now look at
back at that as like being virtuous so
how do you do that for your kids well
that's the million-dollar question
because it's like I never want my kids
to feel
the that [__] that I had to feel
like the shame of like always hiding in
the bathroom when the bill
came and like I would always you know
like I always do something I wasn't just
like a total take but like I just you
know like I always kind of felt like a
scumbag because I was never able to
contribute the way that other people
were and like that's a really shameful
thing and like I can remember so many
times like when I would meet a young
lady and she'd be like let we go back to
your place and the excuses that I would
come up with because I like lived in an
SRO for a while I lived in a halfway
house that I bribed my way into a
halfway house for anyone that doesn't
know in Europe is a it's where you get
out of jail and you're not allowed to
live normally yet in the public right so
they put you into a building where they
can monitor you how did you get in there
I bribed the guy at the
door um it was like a guy behind glass
with like a little slot and you'd have
to check in and check out and I went
there and I was like hey do you have any
open rooms and he was like no get out of
here and I came back with a carton of
cigarettes with a $100 bill in it and I
was like I need a room and he was like
all right he's like 531 is yours write
your name there and he was like it's
$450 a month cash or whatever it was
interestingly when you tell that story
of being in a halfway house and having
no money and all these things
objectively someone looks at that
situation and goes oh man I feel so
sorry for you like I so psyched but this
speaks to how perspect like a mindset
and a perspective can turn hell into
heaven or Heaven into hell yeah I mean
like I I some the reason why I learned
about that is it was my I had a friend
her cousin lived there and he was like
here's how I got it I bribed the door
guy and he's like it's cool it's like
don't talk to anybody in the building
and he's like you know some of the
people in here are undocumented
immigrants and a lot of them are like
they just got out of jail I was like
okay that's cool and he's like some of
them are homeless people that were given
these rooms I'm like okay I can handle
all that they like told me the whole
thing of how to get in there and there
no bathroom and no
kitchen how did this change Casey I Know
video had come into your life around
video came into my life before I moved
to New York City that was the catalyst
is um my baby mama dumped me I came into
New York to hang around my brother van
who I like worship sh and he had just
bought he was doing like temp work right
he lived in Brooklyn he had bought the
first iMac like the one that was like
shaped like a big blue TV and it came
with like footage of like a dog in a um
plastic like kitty pool a pool for
children to play and the dog was getting
a bath so you could play edit with the
footage that came with it and he and I
would just kind of edit that footage
over and over so we have a camera so I
bought a camera and he had a computer I
came and we'd like film stuff and edit
videos of it and I was like I can figure
this out and I like maxed out a credit
card and started making terrible videos
and I was like that's it I'll become a
filmmaker and then I moved to New York
like it was one of the three things I
brought to New York when I moved here
was this huge iMac and like a backpack
full of clothes and then like my BMX
bike which was stolen the next day and
you're like 19 this time yeah what was
it do you ever think about the
psychological reasons why you were so
drawn to video and storytelling
generally I don't know I I have an
answer to that but I don't know if this
is the why I was drawn to it or maybe
I've just said this so many times it's
become my default response but I
definitely felt like I never had a voice
you know I think it's because I was like
that third out of four kids or like I I
never did well in school I was always in
trouble so teachers never listened to me
I was always in trouble in getting in
fights and stuff so my friend's parents
never liked me um and I just felt like I
I was never heard and then I started to
make videos I was kind of articulate my
thoughts or an idea in the form of a
video and people would respond to that
so I think that was part of it
but I don't know I think I also just
liked it like there's something about it
that felt so fun and there was something
in the end that you would have that was
like this finished done thing did you
like
movies yeah but I was never like a
cynophile as a kid you know like I had
my favorites you know like I love the
movie big and I do remember in seventh
grade we got to do um
this program where you could like choose
a profession and you got to go do that
job and like there's a fiser
pharmaceutical had like its headquarters
in nearby town and like a lot of the
kids went there to be chemists or
scientists and they got to go spend like
two hours at fizer there's a submarine
military base a lot of kids got to go
onto the base and see what it's like to
be in the Navy um and mine was I want to
work at a video rental store because I
want to get paid just sit and watch
movies all day and they're like all
right I guess we could organize that for
you and I remember going there and it
was like this kid and he was like yeah I
worked the day shift nobody ever comes
by and I was like what do we do and he's
like we have to put away those movies it
took like three minutes and I was like
now what are we doing he's like just
wait for customers so we just sat there
and watched TV for like eight hours I
was like this is a job I could get into
but I don't think it was like the you
know like the Quinton Tarantino where he
worked in a video store and studied film
I never had that do you think that's
part of the reason you were successful
at it though because you're style has
always been so clearly original in so
many ways that's how it feels it feels
like you are in fact someone that didn't
go to movie school and that's why people
resonate with it yeah I I I always say
that like my film making style is
because I was never taught the right way
to do it so I was forced to find my own
way to do it and I think that kind of
thinking is at the same time is sort of
like consumer grade video creation
became this ubiquitous thing with
computers and editing software and
cameras for the first time ever in the
history of humanity you could like the
early 2000s you could buy like a DV
digital video camera and you can buy a
computer and plug it in you can edit
your own videos so my aspiration to make
videos and this machine that let you do
it those happened at the exact same time
and because of that I was forced to
create my own style like my hard drive
was 10 gigabytes I could edit like like
12 or 16 minutes a video before the hard
drive was full so no I made really short
videos and that's why it's like I didn't
have a choice I had to be a short video
um but I do think yeah like the lack of
formal education and that capacity
forced me to be a different kind of
filmmaker or approach it differently
anyway do you look back I'm so compelled
by originality as like a subject and the
power of originality because when you
when a couple of people in society or
the world or business or creativity or
movies take the risk of being a
origal the issue is they draw in a and
that originality is resonant they draw
in a big audience who then look up to
them and almost confuse their admiration
for that person with their aspirations
for themselves and go I will create like
Casey and that is the way to be
successful it's a very logical deduction
but it seem but it's clearly flawed
because there can be no other caseing it
was tremendously flawed it's what I
[__] hate about YouTube um I call
this like the the Mr beas ification of
YouTube and I have to be very careful
here Jimmy's a genius what Mr Beast has
done on YouTube is brilliant and it's
because of his
Brilliance so this is not to take away
from him at all I think he is incredible
what he's done and he has no control
over the fact that millions of people
are trying to copy him but the fact that
millions of people are trying to emulate
what he's doing that is the Mr beastify
of the platform that I hate because
Jimmy's always been very honest his goal
has never been like ask me my goal and
now in the most sort of intellectual of
terms I'll look back at it and I'll be
like video for me has always been a way
of um a refined self-expression for me
to take my thoughts and force them into
this sort of articulate six eight minute
compartmentalized little video and share
it with the world like that's been my
motivation jimmies from day one has just
been fine success he was a kid who had
no money he had no resource he had no
friends he had nothing and he's like
this is a tool I can use to take me to
the highest ples of of business and all
of that Jimmy is just as passionate
about his chocolate company febles as he
is about his his video creation company
you know Mr Beast Enterprise he's just
as passionate about his
philanthropy um being successful and
helping as many people as possible as he
is about making a video about what it
means to live in a million-dollar house
like his passion is about that winning
so for him it's beautiful but in the
most reductive sense when people look at
that they're like okay that's what means
to be a YouTuber all that matters is
views and I put next to no value on that
none again this isn't the takeaway from
Jimmy because what he's done is
incredible but when people Aspire just
to get that view count up to me it's a
race to the bottom I [__] hate it I
hate it and I do think it's because of
people not knowing what to do so they
look to see well who's successful that's
how I'm successful let me be that and it
will never work it will never work um it
requires sort of an introspection of
like no why do I want to do this what is
true to me and then you go and do that
and maybe you'll find success and maybe
you won't but at least it'll be true why
does truth end up mattering more in that
case than view so if there's one path
here and I can get a million subscribers
by just doing a Jimmy uh or Casey
knockoff Channel or there's this other
path which I go oh there's no blueprint
here and it's never been done before and
I don't think anyone's going to like
this stuff and it's probably not going
to pay my bills why what's the case for
pursuing the latter the true path I I
think that truth lasts truth matters
like there's a direct there's uh no
correlation rather between the movies
that have won best picture the Academy
Award for best picture over the last 80
years and the highest grossing movies
those two things have been the same like
three times four times like one of them
I think was Gone with the Wind meaning
that the movies that that the movies
that that the world determines are the
most quality most important greatest
films the greatest contribution to
culture and Humanity are almost never
the same movies that make the most money
Transformers nine was a really cool
movie I don't [__] remember what
happened I think there's a dinosaur in
it but like you see a movie that affects
you you see a movie that that matters to
you you see a little deer needs to fly
this documentary by verer Herzog you see
the Anvil story and you're thinking
about it I haven't seen that Anvil story
in five years I think about that movie
every day that lasts so that matters and
me as a 42y old grown adult like I know
in life that's what matters there always
there's always going to be junk food
there'll always be an appetite for it
there'll always be an appetite for
[__] reality TV and [__] and you
know like whatever pop stars are popular
this week and will disappear next week
but the musicians that like change you
the ones that write that song that like
uh makes you cry like you'll never
forget that so for me like if if you if
you want to be an artist or you say you
want to be an
artist how could there be any other goal
but that and just to bring this full
circle I think the magic of Mr Beast of
Jimmy in particular I don't think he's
ever wanted to be an artist and that
honesty is why I have so much respect
for him he's a he's a he's an Empire
Builder and that's what he's wanted to
do and he's done that through video
creation but um again neither here and
or there not to digress for me it's like
great work matters and it does it
changes people changes me look at the
work that like Spike Jones did not his
Oscar award-winning movies but like I
look at his little weirdo music videos
that I used to watch when I was a kid
and I watch those music videos over and
over what's up fat lip the music video
that he made with fat lip who was like
the kind of a popular hip-hop artist who
didn't have any money and he's like I
got this new song Spike but I don't have
any money to to make the video so they
went out and they like put fat lip in a
clown costume and they filmed it on a
VHS camera it's like one of my favorite
music videos ever but I saw that and I
was like I can be a
filmmaker now if he made a video just
trying to get the most views or whatever
it was instead of just him and his
friend Fat Lip trying to make something
great it might not have done that for me
and that changed my world so like if
you're going to share your [__]
inspirational quotes on Instagram then
step up like make the that could change
the world make the thing that could
affect someone don't just give me Mickey
Mouse [__] that's going to get
views I I look at both you and Jimmy as
Pioneers but for very different reasons
and seemingly for with very different
motivations you strike me as someone
that was really inspired by the art form
and the storytelling side of like the
the creative production process and
Jimmy took this it seems like he took
this other approach where it was much
more about what the data was telling him
to make yeah both of them created
originality though completely you know
completely I think Jimmy is in the
history of I think Jimmy is the most
important YouTuber in the history of
YouTube and I think that arguably I
think he's one of the most important
people in the history of entertainment
full stop I don't know that anyone has
built an Empire that reaches as many
people as what he's doing I think like
there will be case studies taught about
him at Harvard um I think what he he is
a true Pioneer in every sense of the
word do you care about the
views no but that's easy to say I'm like
you know I don't worry about paying rent
anymore and like I don't usually don't
check the prices at restaurants before I
order dinner so it's easy for me to say
um obviously like it's it's uh there was
a time when that really mattered to me
and was super super important to me but
I've grown up and I've you know a level
of Financial Security which is super
real so it's it's less about that and
more about doing good work if one of
your kids came to you and they said dad
I I want to be a
YouTuber and uh what would be the what
would be your response to just that
first surface level question I mean it's
happened little friend is like she's so
good too but Candace always gets not mad
but she's always like take it easy Casey
because I have a tendency to over
intellectualize it but I'm like Franny
you can make whatever you want um but
you're not allowed to share it and she's
like why I want to get subscribers and
Views and I'm like well if you make it
like I want I just want to make sure
you're making it for you because you
want to make something not because
you're looking for that I don't know
words I use with her but like that
validation I know she would know that
word
but and that's when Candace is like take
it easy Casey she's eight and I'm like
okay all right just do your thing kiddo
but
um yeah I think like the concern what is
the concern is why like if she wants to
do it because she wants to be an artist
[__] yes I will drop everything to help
you on this Mission if you want to do it
cuz your little girlfriend at school did
it and she got 35 likes and you want to
get more likes than her then like pump
The Brak kid like that's you know like
that's what if she says I want to be
bigger than Mr Beast the same thing then
you know it's like why like why why do
you want to do that you know and also
like I Fame is a very
weird very strange thing um and I think
that what the most strange thing about
Fame
is it's
not what you think like there are people
who have achieved and felt some degree
of Fame and there are people who haven't
and if you're in the haven't Camp
there's no way to understand the have
Camp there's no way there's no way and
um having been over here you know like
to see someone Aspire for that is like
you know I like no way what's the
warning the warning is just like if if
if Fame is a byproduct of what you're
doing then it is what it is but if Fame
is the
endgame then you're just like one of
those [__] reality stars with the
[__] up faces because you had so much
plastic surgery and like what are you
doing what are you offering the world
like why are you here like you're G
you're you're benefiting the world in no
way whatsoever you're elevating the
world zero this is pure like narcissism
this is just just just for some weird
ego Journey that you're
on um again this is one of those moments
my wife would be like back off Casey
she's eight let her finish her mac and
cheese I wouldn't say it's a kid but
like yeah if she says I want to be
bigger than Mr Beast like then yeah I
get nervous what if she she says Okay I
want to do I want to make YouTube videos
cuz I love creating videos but I would
like some advice d add on how to be a
successful YouTuber yeah you should see
her she has a whole channel that is stop
frame animations of her stuffed animals
she's not allowed to have her voice in
it or her hands in it you're not allowed
to identify that it's in our apartment
okay but she makes those and they're
[__] great and they're funny and
they're really good so that like yeah we
support we support her so much we buy
her the equipment we help her make it
we're part of the audience we have like
a family iMessage thread that we
distribute the videos on um she even has
her own Instagram handle that has zero
followers cace and I don't follow it we
pass the phone around to watch her
Instagrams because we don't want her to
even associate one like with why she's
doing it even if that like is from us my
sister texted and was like Hey you
you've sent me a screen capture of
Francine's Tik Tok or whatever can you
send me her account we're like no this
is clearly coming from your experience
yeah protect them as long as you can man
keep the kids so far away from that keep
them far away from views and likes yeah
for from seeking validation did you ever
full pray to
that
uh did I ever fall pray to that uh yeah
but I'm I'm different because I'm I was
old like I was literally your age that
you are right now sitting across from me
before I had an Instagram account think
about how much more you know than an
8-year-old yeah like for an 8-year-old
that's the world that she's growing up
it's a really scary place like social
media we're seeing how much it [__]
kids up we're seeing the Mental Health
crisis we're seeing how it's manifesting
we're seeing Eating Disorders because of
Instagram we're seeing like all these
social issues because of social media
and I think wanting to protect your kids
from that is sort of a universal thing
not just someone who is lived in that
space um you know I think I had a unique
experience with it because I was had
achieved some level of success outside
of social media in the world of regular
old media um and then it was on social
media that I found real success um but I
was able to do that with that kind of
hindsight with that kind of clarity of
being an adult being pursuing this
career for 15 years
before on social media you found real
success yeah was that due to your daily
Vlog predominantly is that the was that
the real Catalyst moment terms of growth
yeah 100% you know like I van and I my
brother van and I had a television show
on HBO um that we sold to HBO in 2008
and that television show was exactly my
daily Vlog full stop only eight episodes
or something was Eight Episodes 22
minutes 22 to 24 minute episodes but if
you watch that Daily Show it looks like
an early version of my Vlog it's
identical it's the same exact [__] but
that was before YouTube was really a
Thing YouTube was invented in 2000 or
launched in 2006 and it was really just
a place for watching like basketball
reels and like Charlie bit my finger so
you know we put that show on
HBO very highly reviewed but nobody
watched it it was on at midnight on
Friday nights like it wasn't a breakout
success um and then van moved to
California so I was kind of on my own
and I was like I just want to do that so
I I tried to sell it to MTV and they
didn't get it they're like we know this
is great like I showed it to someone
there and they brought me in and I met
with the heads of MTV and like met some
really powerful people and they're like
this is not anything thing we've ever
seen this is fantastic but we're not
sure this works on TV and I was like
okay cool and then yeah and then I put
it on YouTube and how did that go well
you know you talked about the numbers
before like so before my daily Vlog I
was considered like a successful
YouTuber a celebrated YouTuber I had I
think it was 280,000 subscribers and it
had taken me almost a decade to get
there I started my YouTube channel in
2007 maybe and by 2014
2015 I had 280,000 subscribers had a
couple movies that went truly viral that
had like 5 10 million views um all of my
movies did more than like 50 60,000
views which is
amazing uh and people liked my videos
like the New York Times saw my YouTube
videos and like make videos for us I was
doing that back then so I by all
definition very successful on YouTube
but then I started my daily Vlog and it
took took whatever that was eight years
to go from zero to couple hundred
thousand subscribers and my daily Vlog
went from couple hundred thousand
subscribers to 10 million subscribers in
like 18 months it was a kind of like
explosion that I had never felt in any
other capacity in my my career my life
what's the lesson that you take away
from that about consistency or
compounding or you know yeah that's that
thing patience I wasn't really doing
anything different I mean certainly I
was working much harder to create a
video every every day um it was hard
work but really it was just like I had
this Square Peg and I tried to knock it
through thousands of uh round holes for
15 years and like sometimes I was able
to jam it through and sometimes it would
kind of fall through but I wasn't able
to duplicate it and then all of a sudden
like the moon's aligned like the [__]
planets aligned Pluto is lined up the sh
the sun shined through like rers of the
locked Arc the light came through the
city illuminated and like
2015 YouTube was just becoming something
more it's the first generation that grew
up on YouTube like it had been around
for you know nine years and people had a
relationship with this platform and no
one was doing anything of any
significant production quality and I had
15 years of experience in making short
videos and I brought all of that to
YouTube and then just the episodic
aspect of it so I was like you know make
one video of me running around New York
City hanging around with my wife having
lunch doing something else and then the
video's over and it's like oh who's this
funny looking guy in New York whatever
do that seven days in a row and you're
like oh this is kind of fun I get to
hang out with this guy do it 300 days in
a row and it's like I've become part of
your life and that just snowballs like
it snowballs in every way it snowballs
algorithmically and that's what those
that quantitative explosion was it
snowballs financially cuz you get paid
whatever call it a tenth of a cent per
view and that doesn't mean much if
you're getting 10 views but if you're
getting a 100 million views the money
starts to become subst
substantive um Brands the kinds of
companies you always wanted to work with
maybe one out of every hundred creative
directors at an agency has seen your
videos but all a sudden you go from
getting 100,000 a month to 100 million a
month and now every creative director is
seen your videos they're like we want to
work with that guy and it just it just
was you know just it happens so quick
and was so explosive and so exciting and
so fun sounds like that was your Anvil
moment in some respects like the you'd
put in 15 years of work and then your
craft and patience had met opportunity
in a way and people might look at those
moments and go oh that was you know
that's luck because you know you just
but what is the rebuttal to that what's
the like they're right it was luck but
like luck is what is it luck is where
preparation meets
opportunity I'd just been preparing
myself for that moment for 15 years you
know and then the opportunity opened up
and I was right there and the truth is
like most of us see opportunity just
flies by us all day every day we're not
ready for it um I was seeking it for
that long and you know there's some
other circumstances too my friend Max
pointed this out to me when he and I
were having a meeting last week which
was like when I launched that YouTube
channel um the the daily Vlog rather
when I launched that in
2015 I had had a show in HBO that they
bought for $2 million I had had had
movies that I produced two of them in
the can film festival I won the
cassavetes award at the independent
Spirit Awards which was like the Academy
Awards for indie films like I had I
worked the New York Times I made movies
for Nike I had by every I had worked for
myself at that point in time for 12
years in my own Studio I had by every
definition achieved success but the
exact time I launched that YouTube
channel I was 200,000
in debt meaning I was more broke then
than when I was on welfare getting
checks for my kid because I was so deep
in debt because you know the the year
preceding that I was invited to MIT um
as a fellow and as a high school dropout
it was like No Greater honor than to get
to go to one of the most prestigious
academic institutions on the planet and
be invited there um and I remember going
there being like whatever I do on the
other side of this is going to be
different from what I'm doing now and
what I was doing then was making TV
commercials and doing fun stuff like
that a good career around that time you
read this book yeah what was um what was
so inspiring or perspective shifting
about that book hatching Twitter it
wasn't around that time so I went to MIT
as a fellow I worked out of the MIT
media lab and my lab group was called
the social Computing group and it was
you know eight or 10 techn IST one
artist who was a painter and then me and
I never to this day I don't know what I
was doing there I'm incredibly close to
the professor I talk to him all the time
he's since left there and he is a mentor
of mine somebody I speak to regularly I
still don't know what I was doing there
so mostly I just observed like I was
given no assignment I just observed and
I didn't have any friends I was living
in Boston my pregnant wife is alone in
New York City hating me because I
abandoned her and I read this book and
all I knew is that when I was there I
wanted to figure out what to do next and
the magic of hatching Twitter by the way
Nick bton has since become a good friend
but the magic of this amazing book is it
reveals the madness that was a
technology startup like the chaos like
you know these guys are all very smart
all the guys that started Twitter but
like I don't think they're smarter than
me like I think that like there's like
you have like regular people and like
smart people and then like these
Geniuses that you just can't relate to
and I think that like I live somewhere
between like regular and close to smart
but not fully smart and I think these
guys were like they're just smart
persistent people that wanted to do
something I was like I can do what they
did I can do that and when I left MIT I
was like I'm going to start a technology
company and I didn't know what that
meant but it just sounded like a great
idea um but the whole time was at MIT I
wasn't making any money so I was living
off my credit cards and off my debt my
business had a revolving line of credit
at Chase Bank that was maxed out and
then I started this company which was
basically just meeting with people
telling them I wanted to start a company
and yeah and so six months later I was
$200,000 in debt I couldn't afford my
half of rent that I owed to my wife who
was pregnant um and that's when I
started a daily Vlog and started a
technology
company and it made made
sense but the reason why I gave that
long preface about like I found all this
success is it was like I found all that
success I knew there was snack down the
hall if I didn't want to do the puzzle
and I was like [__] that Let Me Burn It
To The Ground like let me go $200,000 in
debt and do something that I have no
idea I've never written a line of code
in my life let me start a technology let
me start a software development company
I've still never written a line code in
my life but let me do that that's a good
Pursuit for me um and that's what I
did I don't know I'm not sure what I was
thinking what were you thinking I don't
know it felt like a great idea it also
like how old are you at this point
you're what 30 35 yeah and I also like
those guys were such Superstars to me
like Mark Zuckerberg like that in the
social network the movie The Social
Network that scene that ju supposes him
just sitting in his dorm room writing
code with all the cool kids getting on
that bus going to the party with all the
hot girls and he's just I was like I
want to be that guy and also like I
didn't think of anything more explosive
it was like I was still you know I had
financial success but like the 2 million
bucks from the HBO thing didn't make me
a millionaire it's like cut it in half
from taxes you're at a million pay back
our investor you're have 400,000 left
over there's two of us give half that to
van it's $200,000 and then three years
goes by and it's like you're making like
middle class income for three years you
know we're not rich and I was like I
want to be rich like I want to be a
billionaire let me start a tech company
that's how I'll get there
unqualified I mean when I look through
your story I see someone who was
seemingly unqualified to pursue the
things that he pursued over and over
again you weren't qualified to get into
movies there was no formal education by
any objective standards you weren't
qualified to be starting a tech company
um what was I thinking what is
unqualified in like because I think most
people would say well I I'm not a tech
entrepreneur they would like self-label
and then disqualify themselves from
doing that and I think in most people's
lives they're actually spending more
time disqualifying themselves like
logically but you seem to be taking the
opposite approach which is you seem to
be qualifying yourself for things that
you're objectively unqualified to be
pursuing I I had this conversation with
Candace my wife last night because it
was like what do we do with these little
girls our daughters to show them they
can do anything and if they were boys I
knew what to do if they're boys force
them to work with their hands like it's
one of my regrets of my son my son is 25
now and he's a superstar he's fantastic
but you you know he's he loved Academia
and I I indulged him in that and I wish
I had been more forceful and encouraging
him to learn to work with his hands why
because I think you learn something
about life by learning how to build and
do things there's this great South Park
special that's on TV right now and like
the handyman who like fix your broken
toilet become the billionaires and all
the intellects are standing outside Home
Depot like holding up signs that are
like I'm a I'm a biologist please hire
me like we trade for because it's like
and they're sitting around they're like
I wish IID just learned to work with my
hands why didn't anybody tell me and I
think what they're saying with that or
what I feel what I was able to deduce
from that is it's just like there are
Universal aspects of life and humanity
and the world that you learn from
working with your
hands and like this rule of mind which
is that if you don't know what you want
to do in life
do something you hate and through that
process you'll figure out what it is
that you love like I learned that I
wanted to be a filmmaker by scrubbing
out chowder pots in that [__] seafood
restaurant in Connecticut 40 50 hours a
week just hating it 90 degrees back
there in the summer stinks scrubbing
that pot hated it it's a lot of time
thinking about what do I wish I was
doing so for like kids it's like yeah no
no no no you don't get to go to college
instead I'm sending you to this school
where you're going to learn how to
rebuild diesel engines enjoy it but I
don't know that I can do that to my
little blond-haired blueeyed daughters
um so you asked me about what it means
to be
unqualified I don't know but I think
like you know when my bicycle was broken
at home and I was a little kid like I
didn't have the tool to fix it I first
had to build the tool that I could then
fix my bike with like I wasn't qualified
but I had to find that qualification and
everything that I did it was the same
kind of thing so why wouldn't I think
that I'm qualified to do anything is
part of that as I hear you say that and
thinking about this idea of doing stuff
with your hands is part of that because
like the what it teaches you and I was
think about your bike example there is
that when something is broken or when
there is a challenge your learning you
learned at that very young age that
Casey can solve that problem himself and
that lesson of I can close the gap
between what I want and where I am is
like an overarching superpower for the
rest of your life where the it's you
know the Gap the gap between where you
are and where you want to be the gap
between Casey being a guy that's you
know making videos to the tech
entrepreneur you learned very early in
your life that Casey can close the gap
and a lot of people never learn that
they think oh I'm unqualified to close
the gap or I don't have the skills to
close the gap or the money or I'm
scrubbing pots in a back room I can't
close the gap but that's evidence and
evidence comes from you know closing the
Gap a couple of times with a bike and I
had a friend DM me uh this week and it
was something like I don't know what it
was but it was this thing that was like
had to figure out who High agency
individuals are something like that like
there's like five bullet points and
number five was like the golden question
who would you call from George Max
friend of mine former is that what it
was it was like who would you call if
you're stuck in a Thai prison to break
you out yeah so that's George Mack who's
a former employee one of my former
companies he's a superstar he's an
incredible guy he does tweet threads and
he did one like last week which is how
how to spot a high agent individual and
I think about that a lot because someone
very close to me uh couldn't couldn't
find his partner he couldn't find his
wife and in a moment of panic he thought
she had been
kidnapped um and he's thousands of miles
away from me and he didn't know what to
do and he called me in that moment he
was like what do I do and I was like
give me all of the
information and he gave me all the
information and he I was like I need
more and I'm like ask asking him all
these questions I'm writing it all down
and then I'm like what are you doing
right now and he's like I'm going to the
police station I said do not go to the
police station here's what they're going
to do and I was like this is why you
don't do that here are the things you
can do to be effective call the call the
bank find out what her last transaction
was figure out what her password is on
her iCloud account and like going
through all these facts like do all that
and call me
back and then I hung up with him and I'm
like how do I solve this problem and it
wasn't there was never a moment of is
there someone that can solve this
problem that's not me it was that thing
that's like says it's either in Lockheed
Martin or at Nasa where it says in like
100 foot letters it won't fail because
of me like that's what that moment was
it was like no I'm the only person who
can solve this right now and like sure
enough the next phone call I called him
it was very Jason born but I called him
like 11 minutes later and I was like
she's at the tennis club she's asleep on
the
couch and like it was much credit to my
younger brother Dean who is a um who is
an actual like Jet Pilot in the Air
Force for helping me figure that out but
like it it was interesting like there
was something about the fact that he
called me there was something about the
fact that I could hear in his voice a
total uncertainty and his Instinct was
there has to be a higher authority that
can solve this problem and how
antithetical that was to my own thinking
which is there's no higher authority
there's no one that can solve this
better than I can solve this right now
and I think I apply that to most of what
I've done throughout my whole life um I
remember like when I was really broke
way back in the day I had a 1986 I think
Volvo 240 whatever the one that had the
Dual hallogen headlight was great
year and somebody crashed into the front
of the
car and the estimate to fix it was like
2,200 bucks and the insurance company
just gave me that money and I was like
[__] this I was like I can fix this car
myself
I remember like my baby mama being like
what do you know about fixing cars I'm
like how hard could it possibly be and
like in that moment like took the whole
front of the car apart I did not do a
good job but I did a good enough job and
I pocketed like all of it like 150 bucks
to replace those hallogen headlights
like screw it all back together um I
mean before we started this podcast
you're like Casey what are you doing
with your time I'm like just building
out my studio I wanted to build my girls
a tree for it in there there was never
of like who what Carpenter do I hire to
build a tree for it it was like no no
I'm going to do this how hard can it be
how hard can yeah how hard can any of it
be like give me a big enough pile of
balls of wood and enough time I will
build you a spaceship as a mantra for
Life how hard can it be there's an air
of naivity which is once you realize how
hard it can be it's like like I will
never do a software development company
again if I knew now if I knew then would
I know now about building that company
no [__] way no chance there's no no
chance it sold for what $36 million
though which is a success yeah it's a
success a million failures though for
that one
success and the failures keep me up way
more than the success puts me to sleep
what are those
failures um you know like some of the
really key failures were like the
naivity that an exit is the Holy Grail
like for me like we were all out of
money like my partner mat and I cut our
salaries and for the last year and I
think the last couple paychecks I was
paying out of my pocket um so we sold
the company and everybody got to have a
job and everybody got paid out one of
the one of the aspects of the sale was
that every employee that had Equity
would get a full cash payout immediately
upon the sale um I thought everybody be
psyched but when he told
everybody they weren't because for them
it was like no no we signed up to build
this company with you this is fun this
is a startup this is why we didn't take
twice the salary from Facebook we wanted
to do something novel with you and now
we just get to go work for a big company
and that moment of feeling like I was
letting down all of these people that
helped me get there it was like yeah I
got to get this fat check I made me a
millionaire I was like I got to be a
millionaire but I I feel like I
disappointed the people who got me there
like the people who like held me up so I
could reach the top I let all of them
down and maybe that's unfair but
that's how it felt that's how it still
feels um feels weird I have zero
employees right now I don't have an
assistant your producer had to call a
friend of ours last night to be like I
haven't heard from Casey in three weeks
is he gonna show up tomorrow because I
don't check my email I don't have an
assistant I don't have a schedule I have
no one I mop my own floors and I think a
lot of that is like the the
post-traumatic stress of having 35
employees at my tech company and feeling
like I let a lot of them down and never
wanted to feel that way again so I was
just like [__] it I'll just mop my own
floors I might make I might miss an
appointment but there's a million
failures that fall underneath that
umbrella of being a manager being a
terrible manager that um I think about
way more than the moments of elation
that were you know selling that company
what was that moment like though if I
zoom in on your psychology throughout
that period you you go on this
incredible journey to build this
business twist turns and I mean the
story of most tech startups most of them
fail most of them run out of cash and
then you get this exit um objectively
people look at that go oh
congratulations amazing you you know
smashed it you're rich you know you got
money now what's going on in your
psychology the day you get the call you
call your investors one of your
investors I think is a good friend of
mine and an investor in one of my
companies Gary vuk um and then it's
done how are you
feeling if I was a fly inside your
head I mean good it was like super
thrilling to get across that Finish Line
a month after then so a month after that
you know like to get specific like the
company CNN Turner bought our company
and you know Matt my business partner
and I signed a three-year deal with them
to stay on and work with them for three
years
and just to tell the Finish Line they
fired us 11 month later 11 months later
so for the a month into that it was
about how do we build this business into
a success underneath
this bigger
company and it was exciting but I also
think there was a huge amount of naivity
on my part about what the realities of
that looked
like the what I interpreted as ambiguity
from CNN about what to do wasn't at all
ambiguity it was them looking to me to
lead and my lack of awareness of
that um is something I look back at now
and just sort of shake my head like this
is what I mean by like a thousand
failures like I can tell you and I don't
think this is an unfair characterization
that like I think they bought my company
because they're like this kid is a star
and we want to we want his reach alone
is worth this amount of money as a bonus
we're getting all of this Technical
knowhow and skill and we're getting the
Brilliance of his partner and like this
is a great deal for us but we want that
influence and then he'll use all these
brilliant people that he has around him
to help promote that influence like
that's what they wanted um I can say
that uh they also wanted to exploit my
reach doing stupid Mickey Mouse [__]
like they had some million-dollar deal
for me to like do commercials for a
watch company and I was like guys this
isn't why I want to work with you and I
said no to that and there's a huge um I
can point to all these things like them
being a big Corporation and us being a
Nimble startup and them wrecking that
culture but the reality is the reason
why we didn't succeed under CNN was
because of me and only because of me it
was my
failure to recognize the opportunity and
build within that
um and I attribute that to Ego I
attribute that to naivity someone like
you doesn't belong at CNN sure easy to
say now but like [__] you man I can
build a spaceship I can do whatever I
want I'll fix that Volvo I can build a
[__] company for CNN you know
incentivized I was like if I built that
company to be a success like the
incentives that they gave for me were
out of this world the people I was
working with at CNN were incredible
they're brilliant people that the only
reason it didn't succeed was because of
me and um I don't know you asked how I
felt a month later when I look back at
it it's like a month later was when I
was probably at like Peak hubris like I
know it all look what I did I know
everything what about 11 months later 11
months later it was just exhaustion and
wanted to get out just let me let me
like when they said we're shutting down
the company I remember it was like super
weird like I was in South Africa with my
family and they're like we're going to
let you know before the end of the year
and like December 31st I like called my
kind of boss at CNN I'm like what's
going on with the company are you guys
shutting us down or we going to keep
going they're like we're going to talk
when you get back and we got back and
they're like we're going to meet here
I'm like why don't we just meet at our
offices or your offices they wanted to
meet in like a neutral location and
there's like a head of HR or something
in the meeting and they're like we want
to let you both know we've decided to
shut down the company and release you
from your or whatever they said and I
was kind of like okay cool like like it
it was not a big thing it was kind of
what I expected
um but it was like a sigh of relief
weirdly what what what's what did your
plan become for your life after that
yeah you know you're this you're this
guy that's checking off your bucket list
the bucket list you had as a child
you've sold the company you've built the
channels you've you know you've made a
huge name for yourself in movie making
at that point 11 months later after
leaving the HR meeting with the at the
neutral location what is what's the
what's the future that's when it got
hard um dark
that was like a moment of real darkness
in my life because not because of those
external factors but just internally
like the fame then was something that I
just did not understand like the only
way to quantify it was I had done like
three billion views in two years
something like that and the content was
all me it was the real version of me I
wasn't playing character I wasn't acting
I didn't have on a Superman costume I
wasn't like i' always say like love
Tyler Duran Brad Pitt's character in
Fight Club but if I met Brad Pitt he's
not that person you meet me I am the
person you think you
know and the fame was [__] insane
like we had to move into a higher
Security building in New York City like
it was it got scary that kind of Fame
and when I was winning like putting a
video out every day and I had this
company all cool [__] to talk about it
was it was like you know you're like
coasting on that that but I felt like I
wasn't winning like I didn't want to do
my Daily Show anymore I was exhausted
from it CNN had just kind of fired me so
I wasn't building anything with them I
wasn't sure what to do but I still
couldn't step outside without like being
like like Justin Bieber kind of swarmed
and I didn't know what to do and I kind
of like started the Souther company
called 368 with my partner at the time
Paul that was a cool project I started
up a new Daily Show with my other friend
Dan that was kind of exciting um but
basically it just felt like a bunch of
sort of slow why you say dark it's a
very interesting way because it was the
first time like it was that thing that I
I I I referred to before which is like
you attribute happiness and fulfillment
with winning and I had won like this was
the first time in my life where I
achieved like a level of Financial
Security that you know like if I played
my card rights could have meant
Financial Security for the rest of my
life like for a guy who couldn't afford
diapers that's a [__] Journey that is
a big box on the list to check off um
you know like for a guy who like made
would drive around in my car giving
people VHS copies of my videos I had
three billion views in two years like
that's a big box to check off like i'
done those things and instead of feeling
like I was
like you know I I had done it I had
earned it instead of feeling like I was
standing on top of the mountain I just
kind of was like what what what now like
this isn't this isn't it it wasn't like
I wasn't running the marathon because I
wanted to get across the Finish Line
like I don't know where I've run 24
marathons I don't know where any of my
medals are I was running it because I
love the running like I loved it and it
kind of felt like that was over and I
didn't know what to do and it kind yeah
it got weird got dark for a little bit
that's when we decided to like leave New
York and move to LA and if I was a flly
on the wall then in that moment in your
life where it's dark and weird what what
do I see in in the walls of your
home well first of all the house was
really really nice cuz CNN had just
bought my company so it was a really
nice House Candace bought the fancy
wallpaper um but no it was mostly like I
had a little baby at the time and then a
um like a
three-year-old just kind of at home
chilling hiding I didn't want to go to
my Studios there be too many people
outside uh yeah just unsure uncertain
like I think so much of our decision to
move we moved to LA for like three years
it was a disaster and moved back to New
York but so much of my enthusiasm to
leave New York it was just like I need
to get away from all of this and I
pictured like la like I was moving to
the moon like nobody would know me there
and I could just go to the beach every
day and chill out couldn't have been
further from the truth but that's so
there was like we decided to move to LA
and we didn't move for another seven
months or whatever and those seven
months was just kind of me hiding and
waiting and Candace you've kind of
indirectly made her famous as well
because of that whole you know
everything that happened in that chapter
of your life which means that both of
you can't just like leave live a normal
life can't just walk down the street
together um how is she feeling in that
moment and does that add strength to the
relationship yeah I mean it was always
the whole that's a whole another podcast
but like you know my daily show was
effectively uh uh I was just pulling
stories from my life my own real life
experiences let me figure out how to
turn that into a narrative I'm coming on
your podcast to let me film my journey
here and then talk about what this is
about and then my journey home and let
me make that today's video and so it's
was just this vacuum and whatever was
closest would get sucked in so she's my
wife she's my partner my best friend so
she would get sucked into the content
all the time mostly she's willing and
supportive but not all the time but I
still had to make my videos so it had
this you know this burden on her this
stress on her some of it was positive
you know she was building her own
company then and it brought enough
exposure to her that people were like oh
I love love what she's doing and it
yielded a a kind of it shined a light on
her Brilliance as a designer and a
jewelry designer and an entrepreneur
herself and she embraced all that but
ultimately yeah it was it was a big
stress on our
relationship as you know whoop are a
sponsor of this podcast which came about
from me being the biggest fan of their
product it's been an absolute game
changer for my sleep for my recovery and
for my overall well-being whoop is a
wearable device this thing on my wrist
right here if you're watching me that
not only tracks your health 24/7 but
also guides you to improve it it's
probably the perfect gift for the person
who has everything or is impossible to
buy for which is what my friends say to
me because it's the kind of gift that
keeps on giving offering realtime
benefits for their health and their
Wellness forever so if you're on the
hunt for the perfect present for a loved
one or a team member or even for you
this festive season I would highly
highly recommend checking out whoop and
they very kindly offered our community
here under the D SE o a special discount
just for you but keep this to yourself
if you head over to join. whoop.com
CEO you can get that discount let me
know who you get one for and how they
get on a quick word on hu as you know
they're a sponsor of this podcast and
I'm an investor in the company it's
moments like this in my life where I'm
extremely busy and I'm flying all over
the place and I'm recording TV shows and
I'm recording shows in America and here
in the UK that hu is a necessity in my
life I'm someone that regardless of
external circumstances or professional
demands wants to stay healthy and
nutritionally complete and that's
exactly where heel fits in my life so if
you're looking to try he for the first
time and to get into it and to join the
huigan family I'd highly recommend you
try this out if this next 10 years of
your life is a movie what is The
Narrative of
this this movie I don't know you ever
seen Kona scatti no it's this amazing
movie there's no story at all it's just
beautiful establishing shots of cities
with weird music and nothing
happens like that's what that's what I
feel like my life is right now it's just
like it's so beautiful and wonderful I'm
doing [__] all right now I'm doing
nothing and and I feel guilty because I
still like I get paid jobs and I take
those paid jobs I do them as best as I
can and I think I do a good job with
them but I feel a little bit like a um a
little bit like I'm I'm selling out or
something because you know I still need
to make a living I still can but I'm
mostly just riding the momentum that I
created years ago and then just like
like I race home from work every day at
like 4:30 in the afternoon so I can be
home my kids get home and I just like
sit around like you can ask me out to
dinner you can invite me to go to the
Met Gala I'm like I can't man I just go
home play with my kids every day it's my
favorite thing like kids go to bed at
7:38 whatever go to the gym for like an
hour come home like bother Candace for
an hour watch TV go to bed like that's
my life and it's f and then during the
day like go hang out in my studio it's
just this Clubhouse like fun [__] in it
like build stuff make things out of wood
go home tell Candace I worked a lot
today play with the kids I just do that
over and over and over and then it's
like Christmas and we go visit her
family or it's like summertime we like
go to the beach I'm just coasting
through life right now and it's
fantastic is this a new Casey because
the other Casey seemed really like as if
they were striving towards some bucket
list thing that they had written when
they were a kid this Casey seems to be
yeah I mean look I'm at peace right now
but this is not a
sustainable I'm at peace right now but
I'm hyper cognizant that this is not
sustainable why I mean because I'll just
be broke like three years but um
moreover like the only thing that brings
me a sense of true like fulfillment in
what is a big part of my life is when I
make something that I think is good um
creatively so like I think I'm a good
dad that's that part of my life and I
think I'm a good husband that's that
part of the life and I'm super Fitness
focused and I care a lot about my my
physical um existence that's a part of
my life but then there's the majority of
the pie chart is like my professional
life and if I'm not making something
even if I make something that's good and
I don't share it or post it that checks
that that does that I made something
great
um what did I do like I made my
mother-in-laws for 70th birthday and she
was like will you make me one of those
slides shows and I know she was
picturing like you know you drop all the
photos into like Windows slideshow maker
and push a button but I made like this
great video we like played it at our
70th birthday to all of her old lady
friends nobody saw that like that did it
for me and I don't feel like I'm like
cashing that check right now I don't
feel like um if if if I'm looking at
that as like a staying healthy it's like
instead of going to the gym I'm like
eating chunk food instead of going for a
jog I'm like sitting on the couch like
when I get to the office instead of like
putting my head down and just making
something great which I can do I just
kind of putts around and like reorganize
my tools every day do you know I said
earlier at this before we started
recording about this word boredom I I
use the word boredom not because I'm
implying that nothing is happening but
so many of the creatives I've spoken to
tell me that you need to have chapters
and seasons in your life of like
basically where you're just chilling
because those they kind of cultivate an
energy towards the new thing maybe maybe
it gives you enough time and space to
stand back from the picture to see the
whole painting or to I don't know get
some inspiration from something your kid
says to you one day or yeah yes look
absolutely like there's a pendulum and
my pendulum swung so far when I'm making
a video a day 800 days in a row while
running a company with 38 employees
while having a wife and a brand new baby
at home like you know I didn't sleep for
3 years years like I was running at full
speed millions of people with their eyes
on me every day and like you could
definitely justify as like the pendulum
swing the other direction now like I
just need this time to
decompress but I don't accept that
because to accept that is to sort of
justify my current laziness in general
sort of L onfair attitude towards life
like I recognize how indulgent it is
right now and I'm not doing this because
I need it I'm doing this because I can
if I was broke right now I'd be [__]
busting my ass every day if my kids were
hungry right now I'd be busting my ass
I'm doing this cuz I can I'm not solving
the puzzle cuz right down the hallway
are all the snacks I could ever want and
I'm very aware of that so I hear you I
do not accept that justification this is
just pure
Indulgence and that's all it is it's
great can we to go have some snacks and
build a shelf this afternoon it's very
honest of you I don't think anyone's
ever said that to me because people do
justify justify their Indulgence it's
very interesting what can we expect from
you can we expect anything do you know
the answer to that because so many
people are like Ultra fans of you I
think there's a anticipation of what's
Casey what's the next big thing Casey's
gonna do you know I don't the the short
answer like but I've been saying this
for a while and I haven't done it it's
like this version of my life right now
that I do love I really just I have all
these movies written when I say movies I
mean YouTube videos written they're like
really meaningful and awesome and some
are deep and some are shallow and some
are one day shoots and some are three
weeks of of writing I just want to make
those I just want to go to my office
every day alone and make these videos
and put them out on YouTube and like I
deleted the YouTube studio app from my
phone I don't look at comments or views
anymore I don't check AdSense I don't do
I just click upload and then go back to
work that's what I want to do right
right now and when I'm beating myself up
about my laziness it's cuz there's no
there's nothing stopping me from doing
that I just I keep kicking the can but
like that's what I want to do right now
like that's it I just want to put my
head down and make the things that I
think are great give a [__] if anybody
watches them you talked about privilege
earlier and acting on your privilege
yeah that is the that to do that is the
ultimate privilege like there is nothing
more there there's nothing more that's
like the most privileged existence so
why aren't you acting on your privilege
you've got the lottery ticket uh you
know I I think of like just to go back
and be as honest as I is because I don't
I don't I don't have
to and I'm embarrassed to say that but
that's the truth Jack over there Jack
Sylvester he's uh produced this podcast
and directed it with me since the very
beginning and you're the reason why he
got into video he told me many years ago
I think he told me two years ago when we
first started this he says he said Casey
is his dream guest um Jack I'm glad I
didn't cancel today thought about it
it's like you know instead of doing that
podcast sure would be cool just to sit
in my office and do nothing again I'm
glad I'm
here but my my question really is about
19-year-old Casey when he first arrived
into New York City what is the advice
that Casey needed to hear at that point
that he he just didn't get and I'm
speaking to all the Jacks out there that
are 19 [__] that's tough
um a quick
digression like hearing that and then
knowing that unlike my notes app I have
25 great movies that I wrote that I
really care about it makes me feel
like Spike Jones has this great idea for
a music video to make with fat lip and
if he just decided to go make shelves
and have lunch and not make that video
it might not have made me get off my
like that's a [__] motivator like
that makes me want to create stuff
but what's the one piece of
advice I think that like nobody cares
about you is something that was never
made clear to me and I mean that in the
most positive optimistic inspiring
motivating way like I think that
especially if you see yourself as a
creative or you want to exist on YouTube
or as a filmmaker as a musician or as an
artist or a painter any of those things
like you think that everybody's paying
attention and because of that it kind of
controls how you think and even when I
was young and fearless and nothing to
lose I was still so cognizant of like
how are people going to react to this
and what's the best way to do like I was
so aware and the reality is nobody gives
a [__] everybody is so focused on
themselves in this world nobody has time
for you and the sooner you accept that
as a creative person the sooner you're
free like you're totally free like do
exactly what feels right to you and if
you can get yourself on that trajectory
then it goes back to what we were
talking about before before about being
novel about being an original about not
being a photocopy of somebody who did
something if you're that photocopy you
will never be the original but the
moment you accept the fact that you
nobody cares do your thing nobody cares
and then you start to go down that path
you will just get better and better and
better you sprinkle on that patience I
was talking about you just keep going
you keep going and eventually like that
persistence will just smash into like
opportunity where that preparation will
smash into opportunity persistence will
smash into opportunity and like your
moment of
explosion your your detonation will
happen that was verbose but you asked a
big question thank you so much Casey we
have um I we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it
for but I I did have a question because
you are I mean many people consider you
to be the very king of vlogging and
we've started a a weekly vlog where
which is going really well we've
uploaded I don't know eight or so videos
and we've got got congrats engaged
audience great I CU you are the king of
vlogging in my eyes I the question I
want to ask you selfishly
is what do you make of that whole medium
it it's got It's been on a journey there
was a lot of daily vloggers back in the
day I used to watch the Sha tards and I
used to watch you and and then you know
doing these daily Vlogs and as you said
I felt like I was your friend living
your life with you the algorithm change
things change it doesn't seem to be the
case that there's daily vloggers anymore
even like vlogging on the platform seems
to have kind of fallen down a little
bit what do you think of I mean I at the
time like when I was doing my daily Vlog
I really thought that it was like the
ultimate like um maturation if that's a
word like of reality television because
you've got Kim Kardashian and then you
have her TV show and in between those
two things are all these producers and
directors and writers and all of this
fabrication so what happens if you
remove the middle part and it's just a
sharing your world like that was the
that was the most sort of
optimistic Whimsical trajectory that I
saw the genre taking and I think it just
never happened it never manifested that
way instead it was a pursuit of
sensationalism and Views I think it was
corrupted by The View count um I don't
fault anyone I I I was susceptible to
that too it was corrupted by The View
count so what could have been something
virtuous turned into
something I think much less
interesting and that crashed and burned
and now in the ashes of that I think
we're seeing really really interesting
things I think we're seeing Niche
succeed which is so [__] wonderful to
see you had to be a YouTuber to succeed
back in the day like one of those you
had to fit in to you had to be one of
those and now it's like we have these
micro creators that are finding their
audiences like friend of mine all he's
into is like fish tanks it's all he does
is fish tanks his Channel's huge he's so
good like these guys retro dodo they're
friends of mine like I was on they came
to New York to film with me their whole
channel is just retro video gaming
devices they're wildly successful
they've released books and that is so
amazing like you have eight episodes of
your Vlog out now I haven't seen any but
like I'm sure they're much more about
this than they are the intimacies of
your life and how you got you know like
you're able to lean into that Niche so I
think like this thing had all this
potential and it crashed and burned and
now out of those ashes we're seeing
these sort of beautiful little things
Sprout up and I I hope that that's the
trajectory it continues and you're not
tempted to Vlog again on a daily basis
if I could do it without having any
notoriety or attention from it I would
do it that's the only reason you don't
do it um it's a big part of the racing
so
interesting my like the thing that I
fantasize is about is like um Quinton
Tarantino just disappears off the face
of the Earth for like six years and then
it's like hey guys I got a new movie
coming out in six months and he is the
only thing anyone talks about is that
movie and he goes and disappears crawls
back into his cave and it's like that is
the ultimate I don't [__] know
anything about that guy is he married I
don't know does he have kids M like
where does he live I don't know what is
he doing right now I have no idea kind
of car does he drive don't know what are
his Hobbies no idea I know nothing about
him but his work I know every word to
every movie he has ever made I
appreciate that man for one reason that
is his artistic contribution to the
world like that is the ultimate so for
me it would like daily vlogging it's
like I don't know how to separate the
like selling of me and my personality
with the art and that uh conf inflation
starts to [__] with my head and then
when people in the street come up to me
and engage me yeah it it's it's that
turning into something in the real world
that just freaks me
out how long have we been talking when
are we
done a while okay the question left for
you is what is one piece of feedback you
want to give to me oh gosh [__] what is
one piece of feedback you want to give
to me yes me
stevenh but might be nervous to tell
me when you set up a studio in New York
City don't do it 40 minutes out into
[__] Brooklyn you figure out how to
build this studio in downtown Manhattan
so all of your guests are five minutes
away instead of 40 minutes away you were
really busy today no putting up shs and
watching TV nothing our studio was in
low low Manhattan until uh this was the
first time we've ever done it here but
great
feedb did you get come here on your
skateboard I thought about it but it
doesn't have the range oh [__] I
appreciate that Casey thank you so much
for the inspiration this is fantastic
I've talked about you for many many
years and it's really about the
principles of towards life but also
creation and the artistic side of your
work that have inspired me so profoundly
and even hearing the import you speak so
clearly on the importance of Truth and
authenticity in what you produce has has
made me rethink a lot of things that I
do and I think in a really important way
and you're someone that is further
further up the ladder that I think
creators like myself Are Climbing so if
you to shout down these messages mean
that I don't have to go through the
darkness or the confusion or all of
those things that you've been through so
I thank you for that um and I'm very
excited to see what you do because
you're a Pioneer and people that are
creating for their own authentic reasons
always make the most interesting [__]
and so that's going to be a source of in
inspiration for me if you do make those
25 videos in in the notes of your phone
so please do appr there do it for
you thank you Casey thanks for having me
do you need a podcast to listen to next
we've discovered that people who liked
this episode also tend to absolutely
love another recent episode we've done
so I've linked that episode in the
description below I know you'll enjoy
[Music]
it h